docs(radio): add topic (#190)
IgniteUI/igniteui-xplat-docs: doc/en/components/radio.md

_keywords: $ProductName$, UI controls, $Platform$ widgets, web widgets, UI widgets, $Platform$, Native $Platform$ Components Suite, Native $Platform$ Controls, Native $Platform$ Components Library, $Platform$ Radio Button components, $Platform$ Radio Button controls, $Platform$ Radio Group component, $Platform$ Radio Group control
---

# $Platform$ Radio & Radio Group

<p class="highlight">The $ProductName$ Radio Button component allows the user to select a single option from an available set of options that are listed side by side.</p>

## $ProductName$ Radio Example

<code-view style="height: 205px" 
           data-demos-base-url="{environment:demosBaseUrl}" 
           iframe-src="{environment:demosBaseUrl}/inputs/radio-group" alt="$Platform$ Radio & Radio Group Example">
</code-view>

<div class="divider--half"></div>

### Usage

To get started with the radio web component, first you need to install the $ProductName$ by typing the following command:

```cmd
npm install igniteui-webcomponents
```

> The next step is to import the IgcRadioComponent and IgcRadioGroupComponent in the typescript file where you want to use them:

Reviewer: Add API links

```ts
import { IgcRadioComponent } from "igniteui-webcomponents/src/components/radio";
import { IgcRadioGroupComponent } from "igniteui-webcomponents/src/components/radio-group";
```

The simplest way to start using the radio is as follows:

```html
<igc-radio-group>
  <igc-radio>Apple</igc-radio>
  <igc-radio>Banana</igc-radio>
  <igc-radio>Mango</igc-radio>
  <igc-radio>Orange</igc-radio>
</igc-radio-group>
```

> [!WARNING]
> The radio component doesn't work with the standart `<form>` element. Use `<igc-form>` instead.

## Examples

### Label

To provide a meaningful label for the radio, simply place some text between the opening and closing tags:

```html
<igc-radio>Apple</igc-radio>
```

> You can specify if the label should be positioned before or after the switch toggle by setting the `label-position` attribute of the switch. Allowed values are `before` and `after`(default):

Reviewer: Switch mentioned instead of radio!
```suggestion
You can specify if the label should be positioned before or after the radio button by setting the `label-position` attribute. Allowed values are `before` and `after`(default):
```

Reviewer: Add API links

<code-view style="height: 205px"
           data-demos-base-url="{environment:dvDemosBaseUrl}"
           iframe-src="{environment:dvDemosBaseUrl}/inputs/radio-group"
           alt="$Platform$ Radio Example"
           github-src="inputs/radio/group">
</code-view>

### Ivalid

Use the `invalid` attribute to mark the radio as invalid.

```html
<igc-radio invalid></igc-radio>
```

<code-view style="height: 205px"
           data-demos-base-url="{environment:dvDemosBaseUrl}"
           iframe-src="{environment:dvDemosBaseUrl}/inputs/radio-invalid"
           alt="$Platform$ Radio Example"
           github-src="inputs/radio/invalid">
</code-view>

### Disabled

Use the `disabled` attribute to disable the radio.

```html
<igc-radio-group>
  <igc-radio>Apple</igc-radio>
  <igc-radio disabled>Banana</igc-radio>
  <igc-radio>Mango</igc-radio>
  <igc-radio>Orange</igc-radio>
</igc-radio-group>
```

<code-view style="height: 205px"
           data-demos-base-url="{environment:dvDemosBaseUrl}"
           iframe-src="{environment:dvDemosBaseUrl}/inputs/radio-disabled"
           alt="$Platform$ Radio Example"
           github-src="inputs/radio/disabled">
</code-view>

### Group Alignment

> The radio group allows you to easily change the placement directionality of the radio buttons it contains using the `alignment` attribute. Allowed values are `vertical`(default) and `horizontal`.

Reviewer: Add API link
